
Marriott Tech Accelerator (ANSR)
Questions asked (Interview : round 1) :

1. Work manager v job scheduler
2. Kotlin Coroutine scopes
3. How to manage communication between multiple fragments
4. Jetpack components
5. How will you debug/fix exception that is effecting prod user.
6. How will you fix a feature that uses lots of fragment and having lots of state management issues.
7. What are all the architecture you have worked with ?
8. Kotlin scoped functions
9. Find out the missing elements in a 0-n Consecutive sequence. 0,1,2,3,4,6,7,9,10,11 | return should be 5,8 as they are missing.


Company 2 - Stryker :

Round 1 :
1. lateinit vs lazy.
2. by keyword in lazy declaration.
3. Kotlin delegates.
4. Coroutine Scopes.
5. Exception handling in coroutine scope.
6. SOLID principles ? What does D stand for in SOLID
7. MVVM how does it help with separation of concerns ?
8. Problem with Navigation3 lib / Deep-linking in Compose ?
9. Sonar Cube ?

Round 2 :

1. What is webRTC ? What are STUN/TURN Servers ?
2. DSA : Reverse linked list in pair : 1->2->3->4 = 2->1->4->3
3. Write pseudocode - a flow is emitting values from 1..100, we only want to update the ui for even values.
4. SOLID principles - What does D stand for ?
5. Unit test case Scenario : we are writing test cases for our viewModel class, in our viewmodel
   we are using context to get some resource. How can I write test case for this function ?
   How will you get context for your test case ?

Company 3 - 7Eleven :

Round 1 (14th Oct 2025)
1. Leet Code : https://leetcode.com/problems/product-of-array-except-self/description/
2. Lazy vs lateinit in kotlin.
3. What is Polymorphism in OOPS.
4. LaunchEffects in compose.
5. How kotlin helps with null safety.
6. What is android manifest ?
7. Row's, Column's, Box's in Compose Layouts.
8. What will happen if I declare a var as lazy but don't init it and try to use it.
9. Higher Order functions.

Round 2 (23rd Oct - 2025)
1. Leet Code : https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-substring-without-repeating-characters/description/
2. What are the Core OOPS principles - explain using real life examples ?
3. Can we create an activity without attaching any Ui component with it ?
4. If we have 2 fragment getting shown in the same screen how can you share a state between them ?
5. How will you solve a problem where internet connectivity is very poor and you need to make sure
each and every data is synced with backend without miss. How will you design the architecture.
6. What component you will use in jetpack compose if you want to show 2 widgets on top of each other.
7. How will you make sure that your screen survives configuration changes - like screen rotation.
8. What you understand by ANR.
9. Which life cycle method of a fragment gets called only once during lifecycle of a fragment ?
10. What are most challenging task you have tackled in your first company ?


Round 3 : Techno managerial (4th Nov - 2025)
1. You are stressed out because your teammate is not contributing pulling his/her weight due to which
you are having to do 90% of the work. How will you handle such situation ?
2. You are proposing a change to the team that is really good for the project. However your teammates don't even
want to listen to you as you have messed up similar change before and due to which project was affected.
How will you handle such situation ?
3. Offline first application design with auto-sync when network is available and storing to sync later
when network is not available.

Company 4 - tcs :

Round 1 (16th Oct-2025)
1. WorkManager when & why to use them.
2. Coroutines - How do you make sure 2 suspending functions are executing synchronously - one after another.
3. What are the advantages of Kotlin over Java.
4. Extension functions in kotlin.
5. companion objects in kotlin.
6. In Retrofit how do you send headers payload.
7. What are interceptors ?
8. How do you implement a retry mechanism in your network/retrofit layer.
9. Lazy vs lateinit in kotlin.
10. What does proguard/R8 do ?
11. What are the needs of build favours ?
12. What is SSL pinning ?
13. Difference between Enums vs Sealed class.
14. Kotlin Flow, how they are better than LiveData.
15. MutableStateFlow vs MutableSharedFlow.
16. Dependency injections, why they are needed ?
17. How do you make your app more secure?
18. Database migration ? How you do it give a brief.

Round 2 : (same day) - Machine Coding (30min)
Create a task list application. having an edit text and add button.
You can make a list of tasks using the add button. and display it rightt below the edit text
you can makr the the task as completed from list view and also delete the task.

Round 3 : (same day) - Managerial
1. Tell me one of your strengths and weaknesses.
2. How will you handle a team with mixed people like few are junior few are senior than you.
3. How do make sure to make the deadlines while making sure no one is over stressed and work is
distributed properly.


Company 5 - global-logic :

Round 1 (16th Oct - 2025)
1. Create a sealed class Result with Success,Failure,Loading. Write a suspending function and return Result as return
type. Call that suspend function.
2. Compose - remember{}, rememberSavable{} ??
3. How do you manage state in a compose base app.
4. what are the architectures you are familier with. What is MVVM ?
5. What are coroutines ? How to use them.
6. RxJava vs KotlinFlow library.

Company 6 - google :

Round 1 (27 Oct - 2025)
1. Problem-Solving :
Question: Decode Message Using Encoding Tree
You are given an Encoding Tree and an encoded string.
Each node in the tree contains:

A value (used for traversal)
An optional decodedValue (only present in leaf nodes)
A list of child nodes.

The encoding tree defines how sequences of node labels correspond to decoded text.
You need to implement a method decodeMessage(Tree root, String encodedMsg) which decodes the encoded
string using the given tree, and returns the full decoded message.

Additionally, implement an iterator method next() that returns one character at a time from the decoded
message (e.g., 'H', 'E', 'L', 'L', 'O', ' ', 'W', 'O', 'R', 'L', 'D').

                  (Z)
                /  |   \
              A    D     E
             /         /   \
            B         F       G
           /       /  |  \    / \
          C       H   I   J  K   L

         ABC - "HE"
         D - "L"
         EFH - "O"
         EFI - " "
         EFJ - "W"
         EGK - "R"
         EGL - "R"

Encoding Tree Above : (1st parameter)
Encoded String : ABCDDEFHEFIEFJEFHEGKDEGL (2nd parameter)
Decoded String : HELLO WORLD. (Expected output)


Company 7 - KiwiHealth :

Round 1 (12 Nov - 2025)
1. Problem-Solving : https://leetcode.com/problems/permutations/
2. Compose : Recycler view vs Lazy Column
    - Difference between Recycler View vs Lazy Column ?
    - How lazy-column works like how does it Reuse same cells like recycler view ?
    - What happens to the previously rendered cells ?
3. What is recompositions in compose function ?
4. Compose :
    - In a compose based app if I have a large screen with lots of states, how will you make
    sure so there is as less recomposition as possible ?
    - How will you optimise it ?
    - Lets say during a configuration change how do you make sure there is as less recomposition as possible.
5. How do you handle orientation changes in Jetpack Compose?
6. How does view models actually manage to survive configuration changes ?
7. During configuration change what are the exact life cycle methods that will be called for an activity.
8. How do you detect memory leaks in android ? Tell me about a common reason that will cause memory leak.
9. What is singleton pattern ?
    - Is a data class in kotlin actually thread safe ?
    - Is a singleton class in java & object class in kotlin actually thread safe ?
10. Some common design patterns :
       - Singleton
       - Builder pattern.
       - etc.
11. Flows :
    - MutableStateFlow vs MutableSharedFlow ? Where should I use which one ?

12. MVC vs MVP vs MVVM :
    - If we forgot about the tools that MVVM provides like view models, coroutines, flows etc.
    What other advantages does MVVM provide compared to MVP. Like in MVP also there is separation of concern,
    there is algo RxJava to impelment observable flows etc then when should I choose what when MVP vs when MVVM.

13. Work manager :
    - Lets say download the image, apply filter to the image, upload the image, I want to chain these
    operation so they ran one after another. How do you do that using work manager.
14. Coroutines :
    - Coroutine scope vs supervisor scope what's the difference ?
    - If I don't have a coroutine scope how will it behave if there are multiple api calls and one of them fails with
    exception.
15. Explain CompositionLocal.
16. Explain the concept of lazy composition in Jetpack Compose.
30. What are the best practices for performance optimization in Jetpack Compose?

Round 2 (17 Nov - 2025)
1. Why do you want to join us?
2. HTTP protocols - GET,POST,PUT,DELETE
3. HLD design of metro tikit booking app.
4. Questions related to projects currently working on.
5. Inline function in kotlin ?
6. app level build.gradle vs project level build.gradle what's the difference ?


Company 7 - LTIMindTree

Round 1 (18th Nov) :
1. Reverse words like this -> "Hello World" -> "olleH dlroW" like this.
2. How do you avoid deadlock in local db if two clients are trying to access same resource at the same
time ?
3. How do we do room migration's to modify an existing table ?
4. If I want to same some ENUM values in Room how will I do it ?
4. How to do multithreading on java in context of android ? -- TODO : Done till here.
5. How do you share data between fragments,(using NavGraph also) ?
6. How do you make sure to have common bottom nav in a xml based approach ?
7. What are different kinds of Services and what's their use case ?
8. Can we have multiple launcher activity's in our manifest ? What will happen if we do so.
9. Whats the difference between different types of LiveData - LiveData,MutableLiveData,MediatorLiveData ?
10. Whats the difference/advantages in using flow vs livedata?
11. What is backpressure in flow ?
12. If I open a url in webview inside my app. Will I be able to see both the screen's like the webview one
and the screen that I used to open the webview?
13. Kotlin scoped functions ?
14. View binding vs Data binding ?
15. Constraint layout vs Frame Layout ?
16. Navigation in compose based apps ?
17. What is state hoisting ?
18. Compositions and recompositions ?
19. How do you implement pagination in compose based ui.
20. What are the different types of context in android apps ?

Company 8 - Publicis Sapient --TODO

Round 1 (19th Nov) :
1. Create a simple list of strings. Add new values to it. Filter the duplicate values.
2. Difference between data class vs object class in kotlin.
3. Difference between data class vs normal class in kotlin.
4. How do we make sure to survive configuration changes in Jetpack compose.
5. HotFlow vs ColdFlow in kotlin flows.
6. Higher order functions and Lambda functions with a working example.
7. What is tightly coupling and loosely coupling ?
8. SOLID principles when writing software.
9. Test cases in android.

Company 9 - Wipro

Round 1 (21th Nov) :
1. Reverse a string without using any library function -> input : Samriddha ; output : ahddirmaS
2. If we show a Alert Dialog in a activity, what will be the callback functions called for the activity ?
3. Difference between SQLite and Room db ?
4. What are services in android ?
5. What is clean architecture and how do we implement it ?
6. Coroutines : write code for launching 2 api calls, if one of them fails then the others should still work.
7. remember{} vs rememberSavable{} in compose.
8. Ways to optimise compose ui.


Company 10 - CGI

Round 1 (21th Nov) :
1. Move Zeros in array : input = {0,2,3,0,5,9,0} ; output = {2,3,5,9,0,0,0}
2. Fragments : attach() vs replace() in fragment transections.
3. What is memory leaks ? How do you detect/prevent memory leaks ?
4. DataBinding vs ViewBinding in Android.
5. Some questions like :
    - What are you currently working on.
    - How do you use git for feature development ?
    - How do you use rollout new features/app updates.
    - How do you track issues in the app/crashes ?

Company 11 - Mythik :
1. 2SumProblem : https://leetcode.com/problems/two-sum/
2. Ways to handle process death in android apps.
3. Compose how will you optimise where we need to show large list with lots of content that is showing
image, and we are showing image using Coil.
4. If we are updating a particular item in recycler view, that item has image and we want to update
some other content maybe like-count. How will you do it making sure the image doesn't flicker.
5. In case of configuration changes when what life cycle method will be followed.
6. View models how do they survive configuration changes.
7. refied keyword.
8. Coroutine scopes : what kind of scope is viewModelScope ? If I launch something in viewmodel scope and
one of the task fails, what will happen.
9. Dispatches : when to use IO and when to use Default. Whats the difference like how do they work?

Company 12 - IBM :
1. What is MVI architecture ?
2. What is MediatorLiveData ?
3. You have two apps, I want if I have created profile in one app, and then try to open the other one
the 2nd app should already be aware of that profile that I created in my 1st app and give me an option
to login using that account.
4. How do you minimize recompositions in compose based apps.
5. ViewBinding and DataBinding and what's the advantages ?
6. SharedViewModel and what's the use ?
7. How do you share data between multiple fragments ?
8. When to use and not to use single activity architecture ?
9. How do you establish Deep-linking in android apps ?
10. Constraint Layout how many constraints are needed in minimum ?